UI Patterns / Overlays interface guidelines (#167)
primer/design: content/ui-patterns/overlays.mdx

        Figma
    </Label>
</LabelGroup>

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/125706076-b16bb3d4-800f-4310-a082-f576e215e6c8.png" alt="Overlay examples" />

## Overview

Overlays can streamline the interface by allowing extra options to be displayed as needed. Overlays create a new modality to the user, and can facilitate the completion of individual tasks.

**Keep overlays simple**. Overlays are meant to be interacted with quickly. Avoid creating a whole page inside an overlay. Prefer single-column layouts that convey a clear goal the moment the overlay is opened.

**Keep overlays accessible**. Overlays should be fully functional with keyboard. When an overlay is present, the rest of the page becomes noninteractive until the overlay is dismissed. Pressing Escape should dismiss the overlay. When an overlay is dismissed, focus generally returns to the element that opened it.

**Overlays should work well on any device**. Overlays must adjust their designs to fit in smaller viewports, and may adapt their style to become bottom sheets or full-screen on narrow devices. Make sure the overlay contents work with all supported sizes and input methods.

## Anatomy

> <ImageContainer mb={4}>

Author: Updating it to use the new style you designed, @ashygee. Much better! 🙇 

| Before | After |
|--------|--------|
| <img width="636" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146623655-e8cda46c-10d5-4473-b54b-278bde283913.png"> | <img width="636" alt="Frame 1857" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/149601062-2e35343d-e2f9-406d-a5c9-ac21cda0e1fe.png"> |

> <ImageContainer mb={4}>

Author: Still need to update some other images in this file, will leave this conversation open for now.

  <img
    width="636"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146623655-e8cda46c-10d5-4473-b54b-278bde283913.png"
    alt="Overlays have 3 regions: header, content, and footer. These regions may be divided by a full-width divider. Overlays use shadows to indicate elevation, and may appear above a backdrop that dims the rest of the screen."
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Anatomy of an overlay.</Caption>

> **Keep the edges of an overlay free of text and heavy visuals.** This breathing room is meant to visually distinguish the overlay as an elevated surface, alongside its shadow. As a rule of thumb, a safe area of 16px is enough. Components that have transparent or discrete backgrounds may take into account their own paddings, and appear beyond the safe area.

Author: > Can the safe area margin be customized? If not, I question if this is the correct wording. If there are use cases when a designer would increase the safe area margin, can we show those or list them?

The overlay contents is a blank canvas, thinking about how it's implemented. The safe area is a recommendation, as it really depends on how the contents inside are placed.

I reviewed the sentence, went from this:
```
As a rule of thumb, a safe area of 16px is enough.
```
to this
```
Generally, a compact a safe area of 16px is preferred.
```

What do you think? 🙇 

> An example image for this would be good to see.

I've explored this, but it doesn't seem to belong in this first part of the Anatomy section:

![Screen Shot 2022-01-14 at 16 46 41](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/149602099-11a3dbc8-8458-499b-b5fd-20975fcb5ded.png)

<details>

```mdx
<ImageContainer mb={4}>
  <img
    width="636"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/149601850-2736ea96-b6ab-46b7-8bdb-11920f833d29.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>

An example of a dialog with 16px paddings. Notice the **Close** button is closer to the edges, but its icon is still within the safe area.

</Caption>
```

</details>

> **The content region may scroll vertically** to accommodate lists and content that is too long to fit in the available space.

Author: > Question: Is there a max-height for the content region? How should designers think to limit the space that the content region extends to?

No, the overlay contents could support long user-generated lists such as branch lists, user lists etc.

## Options

### Width and height

Overlays width and height dimensions should be set by the values below. In all cases, overlays should never extend beyond the viewport sizes, and may resize to fit smaller devices.

Make sure the contents of any overlay fit narrow viewports with a width of at least 320px.

<Grid gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, 'auto 1fr']} gridGap={4}>
<div>

Width     | Size
:---------|:------
`small`   | 256px
`medium`  | 320px
`large`   | 480px
`xlarge`  | 640px
`xxlarge` | 960px

</div>
<div>

Height   | Size               
:--------|:-------------------
`auto`   | Adjusts to content
`xsmall` | 192px
`small`  | 256px
`medium` | 320px
`large`  | 432px
`xlarge` | 600px

</div>
</Grid>

If the height is set to automatic, make sure the content region has a maximum height defined to support overflow scrolling. For overlays that list user-generated information in a single line, use the `large` height for reference.

Avoid having overlays that are too short or too tall compared to its width. As a rule of thumb, keep a maximum size ratio of 1.6:1, which translates to the following ranges:

> &ZeroWidthSpace;<span style="white-space: nowrap"><sub>Height</sub> ∖ <sup>Width</sup></span> | `small` | `medium` | `large` | `xlarge` | `xxlarge` |

Author: For specialized components, it should come for free. But an overlay can be created in a custom way, I think the specificity is important here. I've updated the paragraph to mention `max-height` specifically, but I hear you on the complexity of this.

I'm thinking of removing the width/height ratio table for now as a way to simplify this. Will confirm next week!

<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="508"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147167707-66da9301-fdfd-4810-9f62-41e4f6f3c23c.png"
    alt=" "
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>

A visualization of available [`anchoredPosition`](https://github.com/primer/behaviors/blob/main/docs/anchored-position.md) options. Source elements (purple squares) and their overlays (white squares) with  `side` (`outside-top`, `outside-right`, `outside-bottom`, `outside-left`) and `align` (`start`, `center`, `end`) settings.

</Caption>

### Centered overlays ("dialogs")

Centered overlays appear centered in the viewport, with a visible backdrop that dims the rest of the window for focus.

Centered overlays should always have an overlay header with title close button. Prevent page scrolling when a centered overlay is present.

Overlays shouldn't touch the viewport edges. Use a safe 24px margin to keep centered overlays visually distinct from the rest of the page, even on narrow viewports.

Simple and small centered overlays can remain as-is on narrow viewports. As more elements are added to it, responsive variants should be considered.

> <ImageContainer>

Author: I've tried it, but it looked like a box inside a box inside a box 😅.

Any suggestions on how to make it, considering our existing `<ImageContainer>`? :))

  <img
    width="661"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170315-80da186f-7de8-4632-893e-31c56dc1e65d.png"
    alt=" "
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>

A centered dialog with a title and close button in the header, a scrollable content region, and a footer with buttons.

</Caption>

### Side sheets

> Side sheets slide from the right or left edges of the viewport. Side sheets are mainly used for global navigation drawers, but right sheets can also be considered for quick previews in full-width pages, or quick configuration panels.

Author: What do you think about:

> Side sheets slide from the right or left edges of the viewport. Left side sheets are reserved for global navigation drawers. Right side sheets are used for global actions, but can also be considered for quick previews in full-width pages, or configuration panels.

> Side sheets take the entire height of the viewport, and should be used sparingly. Don't use side sheets to present forms or flows that should be a page instead.

Author: @ashygee I've noticed this too... for some reason I'm seeing a few incoherent renderings compared to my localhost vs. production/vercel deploy. On my machine the paragraphs display correctly.

The contents above look exactly like this in markdown:

```markdown
### Side sheets

Side sheets slide from the right or left edges of the viewport. Side sheets are mainly used for global navigation drawers, but right sheets can also be considered for quick previews in full-width pages, or quick configuration panels.

Side sheets take the entire height of the viewport, and should be used sparingly. Don't use side sheets to present forms or flows that should be a page instead.
```

@colebemis do you know what could be the cause of this?

## Responsive variants

### Bottom sheets (specific to narrow viewports)

> A bottom sheet is a variant supported on narrow viewports made to facilitate reachability. Overlays that appear anchored or centered in large screens may adapt to appear as a bottom sheet on small screens.

Author: Eventually we'll have a page talking about this in Interface guidelines and we'll link to it :)

> A bottom sheet variant can be used when the overlay content is too overwhelming to appear anchored. A bottom sheet always dims the rest of the screen for focus. Tapping on the backdrop dismisses the overlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bottom sheet variant can be used when the overlay content is too overwhelming to appear anchored. A bottom sheet always dims the rest of the screen for focus. Tapping on the backdrop dismisses the overlay.
```

Wondering if there's a more clear word instead of "overwhelming" here?

Author: @yaili how about "busy"?

> A bottom sheet variant can be used when the overlay content is too busy to appear anchored.

Reviewer: yes that sounds good

> Its height should always accommodate the content inside. If the content is too tall to fit in the viewport, the content region should scroll accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add an example image of a scrollable action sheet here too.

> On portrait, a bottom sheet takes up the full width of the viewport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On portrait mode, a bottom sheet takes up the full width of the viewport.
```

<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="680"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170160-5392c649-0dcb-4c7c-adfc-2524a4a3915c.png"
    alt=" "
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>

In order to work well in non-rectangular mobile screens and browser UI, bottom sheets may add extra padding inside the overlay, following [`env(safe-area-inset-*)`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/env()) environment variables.

</Caption>

> On landscape, a bottom sheet has a maximum width of 480px, centered horizontally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On landscape mode, a bottom sheet has a maximum width of 480px, centered horizontally.
```

<ImageContainer>
    <img
        width="880"
        src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170826-73caa091-b71a-4296-beba-ccf3a2ccf9ab.png"
        alt=" "
        style="background: none"
    />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Bottom sheet on landscape viewports.</Caption>

<ImageContainer>
    <img
        width="500"
        src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170671-09e6002a-2622-41b6-afe5-f37f0890a6c3.png"
        alt=" "
        style="background: none"
    />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Header indicator when no title and close button are present.</Caption>

> A bottom sheet without a title or close button gets an a header indicator at the top. Slide it down to dismiss the overlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bottom sheet without a title or close button gets a header indicator at the top. Slide it down to dismiss the overlay.
```

### Full-screen (specific to narrow viewports)

Full-screen overlays may be used to present content that needs all the available space on narrow viewports.

> Overlays that have one or more input fields should always use the full-screen variant.

Reviewer 3: I added an image here with a close button

<!--
## Navigation
This section should cover in-overlay navigation such as drill-in scenarios, back button, etc.
-->

## Components

> Several components that rely on overlays are available for use. Use them directly when aiming for a specific behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several components that rely on overlays are available for use. Use them directly when aiming for a specific behavior.
```

"Use them directly when aiming for a specific behavior." - I don't know what this means 😅

> <Grid gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, '1fr 2fr']} gridGap={4}>

Reviewer 3: Hmm, I'm not seeing this issue– but reopen if you still see it!

    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/ActionMenu">
            <img alt="Action menu" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123880964-95b3a700-d8f8-11eb-9775-cbaf165207ed.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Action menu</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

> Action menus are used for disambiguation, navigation, or to display secondary options. They appear when users interact with buttons, actions, or other controls.

Author: What do you think about this?

> Action menus are used for showing actions, navigation, or to display secondary options. They appear when users interact with a trigger button.

Thanks!

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/ActionMenu)

</Box>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/DropdownMenu">
            <img alt="Dropdown menu" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123881067-cdbaea00-d8f8-11eb-98e4-e57c64489308.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Dropdown menu</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

> Dropdown menus are used for making a single selection among a small list of options. The list is usually predefined with system values, but in some cases it can include user-provided data when those are known not to grow into too many items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Dropdown menus are used for making a single selection among a small list of options. The list is usually predefined with system values, but in some cases it can include user-provided data when those are known not to grow into too many items.
```

Adding an extra line above the para to see if the link spacing gets fixed.

Reviewer 4: > but in some cases it can include user-provided data when those are known not to grow into too many items.

This is confusing to me.

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/DropdownMenu)

</Box>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/SelectPanel">
            <img alt="Select panel" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123876997-4158f900-d8f1-11eb-85cb-461d9bbee0cb.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Select panel</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

> Select panels allows manipulating long lists of options, with filtering and other advanced interactions. They can be used for single or multi-selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select panels allow the manipulation of long lists of options, with filtering and other advanced interactions. They can be used for single or multi-selection.
```

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/SelectPanel)

</Box>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/Dialog2#confirmationdialog">
            <img alt="Confirmation dialog" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146620807-b5a757bc-59a0-4596-ad3a-ef656c7d5620.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Confirmation dialog</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

> Confirmation dialogs lets users confirm or cancel an action. They are used as an extra friction for destructive actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirmation dialogs let users confirm or cancel an action. They are used as extra friction for destructive actions.
```

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/Dialog2#confirmationdialog)

</Box>
    </div>
<div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/Dialog2">
            <img alt="Dialog" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146621670-20a7e5dd-1f62-4780-a7ed-10711db93fcb.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Dialog</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

> Dialogs are larger used to display information, forms and other rich content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dialogs are larger used to display information, forms and other rich content.
```

Feels like a few words are missing here.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Dialogs are larger and used to display more information, forms, and other rich content.
```

Is this more along the lines of what is intended?

Reviewer: that sounds good to me

`large`   | ❌    | ✅     | ✅     | ✅          | ❌                 |
`xlarge`  | ❌    | ❌     | ✅     | ✅          | ✅                 |

## Behaviors

### Opening

Overlays appear on the page after a direct user interaction, such as on click, tap, press, etc.

<!--
The following paragraph needs a revision based on
https://github.com/github/primer/issues/575

On desktops and other devices with a fine pointer, overlays may also be triggered by a delayed `hover` event (GitHub calls these _hovercards_). Since this behavior doesn't work on touch devices, consider whether tapping on the source element should open the overlay or take the user to its destination directly. For example, a delayed hover on a **@username** may present a _hovercard_ on desktop, while a tap on the username would open a bottom sheet with a link to the user's profile page.
-->

Don't show overlays on page load. For that, prefer in-page messages and flash banners.

<!--
### Loading
Pending.
-->

### Dismissing

Users should be able to dismiss an overlay by:
- Pressing Escape
- Pressing on a **Close** button
- Clicking or tapping outside
- Pressing the browser’s back button

> Close buttons are useful as an easy escape route, particularly in larger or more complex overlays, or when the overlay is no longer visually connected to the source that triggered it. Always use close buttons overlays with backdrops.

Reviewer 2: While being FR someone had a question around close buttons and if headers in ActionList/Select menu should come with a close button or not. While I think this helps already a lot I do think we're still a bit vague especially if the ActionList/Select menu component makes it optional to have a that close button. 

[Slack thread (internal)](https://github.slack.com/archives/CSGAVNZ19/p1642433763062900)

<!--
### Loading
Pending.
-->

### Dismissing

Users should be able to dismiss an overlay by:
- Pressing Escape
- Pressing on a **Close** button
- Clicking or tapping outside
- Pressing the browser’s back button

Close buttons are useful as an easy escape route, particularly in larger or more complex overlays, or when the overlay is no longer visually connected to the source that triggered it. Always use close buttons overlays with backdrops.

Users may click or tap outside to dismiss an overlay. Larger overlays with backdrops may opt to disable this functionality in dangerous scenarios where the user could lose progress or data accidentally.

If the overlay contains changes that are not immediately applied (such as in a form), offer footer buttons such as **Save**, **Apply**, or **Submit**. To avoid users from losing important unsaved changes, a [`beforeUnload`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowEventHandlers/onbeforeunload) event may be used.

Users should also be able to click or tap the browser’s back button to dismiss the overlay. This is particularly useful on mobile devices.

> 

Reviewer 3: Removing this concept while we evaluate!

> ## Placement

Reviewer 3: Nitpick: this section is about placement, but also goes into some more nuanced behavioral specs. I made some comments on how to improve those already, but if you wanted to streamline this even more you could _just_ focus on placement alone here.

</Caption>

On landscape mode, a bottom sheet has a maximum width of 480px, centered horizontally.

<ImageContainer>
    <img
        width="880"
        src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170826-73caa091-b71a-4296-beba-ccf3a2ccf9ab.png"
        alt=" "
        style="background: none"
    />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Bottom sheet on landscape viewports.</Caption>

<ImageContainer>
    <img
        width="500"
        src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/147170671-09e6002a-2622-41b6-afe5-f37f0890a6c3.png"
        alt=" "
        style="background: none"
    />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Header indicator when no title and close button are present.</Caption>

A bottom sheet without a title or close button gets a header indicator at the top. Slide it down to dismiss the overlay.

### Full-screen (specific to narrow viewports)

Full-screen overlays may be used to present content that needs all the available space on narrow viewports.

Overlays that have one or more input fields should always use the full-screen variant.

<!--
## Navigation
This section should cover in-overlay navigation such as drill-in scenarios, back button, etc.
-->

> ## Components

Reviewer 3: I think this is fine to leave in, but its a bit in flux. I wouldn't be against removing this section completely for now.

  <img
    width="768"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/174913178-0b739f53-f9b8-4213-9376-4f918a679941.png"
    alt="Overlays have 3 regions: header, content, and footer. These regions may be divided by a full-width divider. Overlays use shadows to indicate elevation, and may appear above a backdrop that dims the rest of the screen."
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer> -->
<img alt="" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/174921246-606b8de1-dabd-4865-ae98-1e7677f1bb38.png" width="960" />
<Caption>Anatomy of an overlay.</Caption>

### Overlay regions

- header
- actions
- subheader
- body
- footer

### Scroll behavior

The **body** region may scroll vertically to accommodate lists and contents too long to fit in the available space, or when the overlay appears in a small screen.

### Spacing

Keep the edges of an overlay free of text and heavy visuals. This breathing room is meant to visually distinguish the overlay as an elevated surface, alongside its shadow. Use a safe area of 16px when rendering content. Inner components that have transparent or discrete backgrounds may bleed into the padding for visual alignment.

> <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/174925634-603a27cf-2281-4a3a-9078-d1b8138e0d09.png" width="960" />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<img alt="" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/174925634-603a27cf-2281-4a3a-9078-d1b8138e0d09.png" width="960" />
```

<Caption>
  1. A search field in the Subheader region appears closer to the edges. While the search icon remains within the safe area.<br />
  2. Close button placed `8px` away from the edges. Note that the "×" glyph remains within the safe area.<br />
  3. Action list items in the Body region.<br />
  4. Footer buttons always appear inside the safe area. <br />
</Caption>

### Backdrop

> An Overlay can have a visual **backdrop** element. The **backdrop** dims the rest of the page to emphasize the active Overlay. It appears when an Overlay is centered on the page, or attached to the sides.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An overlay can have a visual **backdrop** element. The **backdrop** dims the rest of the page to emphasize the active overlay. It appears when an overlay is centered on the page, or attached to the sides.
```

I think we should use lowercase for overlay since its more of a pattern? If not we should pick one and stick with it throughout 😄

> By default, clicking on the **backdrop** will dismiss the Overlay. However, if the Overlay contains a form that can have unsaved changes, the **backdrop** won't dismiss the Overlay, regardless of the state of the form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, clicking on the **backdrop** will dismiss the overlay. However, if the overlay contains a form that can have unsaved changes, the **backdrop** won't dismiss the overlay, regardless of the state of the form.
```

<!--
Todo:
(discuss more about form states and forms that can be closed by the backdrop)
-->

### Header region

> A **header** region is used to provide the context of the Overlay. By default, the region supports a title, description, and a close button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A **header** region is used to provide the context of the overlay. By default, the region supports a title, description, and a close button.
```

> **Headers** are required when the overlay has a [`role="dialog"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role). In that case, a title must be provided even if they are not visually displayed. The close button must always be visible. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Headers** are required when the overlay has a [`role="dialog"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role). In that case, a title must be provided even if it is not visually displayed. The close button must always be visible. 
```

If the content area has overflow scrolling, a divider will be shown between the footer and content area. Otherwise, showing a divider is optional.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/175850630-9f3df284-c69b-4d16-9e57-ea04a0202d04.png" width="960" alt="" />
<Caption>
  Use buttons in a footer to let the user complete a task.
</Caption>

<Box display="grid" gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, '1fr 1fr']} gridGap={5}>
  <div>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/175850639-a77d537e-2807-47d2-b456-a298d5f44918.png" alt="" />
    <Caption>Footer with small buttons.</Caption>
  </div>
  <div>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/175850637-3b193552-b35f-4b07-b2d6-4ca546c8131a.png" alt="" />
    <Caption>Footer with auxiliary create button.</Caption>
  </div>
</Box>

<!--
<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="600"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146613606-493cb6fb-2f7b-4ec0-9f66-545b5f38d61c.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Use a link in a footer to provide access to a related page.</Caption>
-->

### Dimensions

> Overlays should never extend beyond the viewport sizes, and may resize to fit smaller devices. The contents of an overlay should fit narrow viewports with a minimum width of `320px`. If the contents of an Overlay extend vertically beyond the specified height, the **body** region will scroll.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Overlays should never extend beyond the viewport sizes, and may resize to fit smaller devices. The contents of an overlay should fit narrow viewports with a minimum width of `320px`. If the contents of an overlay extend vertically beyond the specified height, the **body** region will scroll.
```

    variant="xl"
    color="text.success"
    outline
    style="text-decoration: none; line-height: 20px;"
  >
    <img
      width="20"
      height="20"
      alt=""
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123878374-ce9d4d00-d8f3-11eb-8adf-1a160292ff53.png"
      style="vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 4px;"
    />
    React
  </Label>
  <Label
    as="a"
    href="https://www.figma.com/file/GCvY3Qv8czRgZgvl1dG6lp/Primer-Web?node-id=9677%3A44413"
    variant="xl"
    outline
    style="text-decoration: none; line-height: 20px;"
  >
    <img
      width="20"
      height="20"
      alt=""
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123878720-80d51480-d8f4-11eb-9b10-d02a1cb606f8.png"
      style="vertical-align: middle; margin-right: 4px;"
    />
    Figma
  </Label>
</LabelGroup>

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/125706076-b16bb3d4-800f-4310-a082-f576e215e6c8.png" alt="" />

## Overview

Overlays can streamline the interface by allowing extra options to be displayed as needed. Overlays create a new modality to the user, and can facilitate the completion of individual tasks.

> ### Keep overlays simple

Reviewer 5: I love this. ❤️  Things can grow into entire pages very quickly.

Overlays are meant to be interacted with quickly. Avoid creating a whole page inside an overlay. Prefer single-column layouts that convey a clear goal the moment the overlay is opened. If secondary navigation is required for the feature, consider designing a new page.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172914027-668b5b51-b414-4e69-8e5c-9069222eaaad.png"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>Prefer a single column layout.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172914038-d27437cc-213c-42d7-950d-a6997e777489.png"
      alt=""
    />

>     <Caption>Avoid secondary navigation within an Overlay.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Caption>Avoid secondary navigation within an overlay.</Caption>
```

  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### Ensure overlays are accessible

Overlays should be fully functional using the keyboard. When an overlay is used for a Dialog, a close button must be present. Pressing `Esc` should dismiss an overlay, generally returning focus to the element that opened it. Overlays should have clear, descriptive titles.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172926094-08197e69-6e8a-4aa1-849a-455ceab89cb0.png"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>Provide a title and close button for Dialogs.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172926105-c436ea40-1d9d-4166-8780-ea0a68f91068.png"
      alt=""
    />

>     <Caption>Avoid Dialogs without a title or close button.</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Caption>Avoid dialogs without a title or close button.</Caption>
```

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172926228-9e46b6f0-bc4c-47e3-8c90-960d1ec26031.png"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>Use a bottom sheet for narrow devices.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172926222-aeace43b-871f-4877-a69d-bc81e53c674a.png"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>Avoid setting explicit widths on content to prevent screen overflow.</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

## Anatomy

<ImageContainer mb={4}>
  <img
    width="636"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/149601062-2e35343d-e2f9-406d-a5c9-ac21cda0e1fe.png"
    alt="Overlays have 3 regions: header, content, and footer. These regions may be divided by a full-width divider. Overlays use shadows to indicate elevation, and may appear above a backdrop that dims the rest of the screen."
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Anatomy of an overlay.</Caption>

#### Spacing

> Keep the edges of an overlay free of text and heavy visuals. This breathing room is meant to visually distinguish the overlay as an elevated surface, alongside its shadow. Generally, a compact a safe area of 16px is preferred. Components that have transparent or discrete backgrounds may take into account their own paddings, and appear beyond the safe area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep the edges of an overlay free of text and heavy visuals. This breathing room is meant to visually distinguish the overlay as an elevated surface, alongside its shadow. Generally, a compact safe area of 16px is preferred. Components that have transparent or discrete backgrounds may take into account their own paddings, and appear beyond the safe area.
```

#### Scroll behavior

The content region may scroll vertically to accommodate lists and content that is too long to fit in the available space.

#### Header and footer

Optional header and footer regions assist larger overlays. They help provide context and may host non-scrollable actions such as **Close** or **Save**.

#### Backdrops

Backdrops help emphasize the active content. Backdrops are especially recommended for larger overlays such as dialogs, to highlight their modality.

<ImageContainer mb={4}>
  <img
    width="636"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/149601850-2736ea96-b6ab-46b7-8bdb-11920f833d29.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>

An example of a dialog with 16px paddings. Notice the **Close** button is closer to the edges, but its icon is still within the safe area.

</Caption>

### Header region

> A header region should be used to provide context to the user by displaying a title, description, and a **Close** button. Headers may also provide ways for the user to interact with the content, such as with search and tabs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a header region to provide context to the user by displaying a title, description, and a **Close** button. Headers may also provide ways for the user to interact with the content, such as with search and tabs.
```

> - **Titles should be succint**. Descriptions are optionsla, and may wrap to multiple lines.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Titles should be succinct**. Descriptions are optional, and may wrap to multiple lines.
```

    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Header region with larger title and description.</Caption>

### Footer region

The footer region may be used to show confirmation actions, navigation links, or other important elements that should appear outside of the content scrolling region.

If the content area has overflow scrolling, a divider _must_ be shown between the footer and content area. Otherwise, showing a divider is optional.

<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="600"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146613971-391a757b-e5a5-40c2-b166-8f829c5d3609.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Use buttons in a footer to let the user finish the task and confirm their action.</Caption>

<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="600"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146613606-493cb6fb-2f7b-4ec0-9f66-545b5f38d61c.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Use a link in a footer to provide access to a related page.</Caption>

### Width and height

> Overlays should never extend beyond the viewport sizes, and may resize to fit smaller devices. The contents of an overlay should fit narrow viewports with a mimumum width of 320px. In the contents of an overlay extend vertically beyond the specified height, the content region will scroll.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overlays should never extend beyond the viewport sizes, and may resize to fit smaller devices. The contents of an overlay should fit narrow viewports with a minimum width of 320px. If the contents of an overlay extend vertically beyond the specified height, the content region will scroll.
```

Overlays width and height dimensions should be set by the values in the following tables.

<Grid gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, 'auto 1fr']} gridGap={4}>
<div>

| Width     | Size               |
| :-------- | :----------------- |
| `auto`    | Adjusts to content |
| `small`   | 256px              |
| `medium`  | 320px              |
| `large`   | 480px              |
| `xlarge`  | 640px              |
| `xxlarge` | 960px              |

</div>
<div>

| Height   | Size               |
| :------- | :----------------- |
| `auto`   | Adjusts to content |
| `xsmall` | 192px              |
| `small`  | 256px              |
| `medium` | 320px              |
| `large`  | 432px              |
| `xlarge` | 600px              |

</div>
</Grid>

## Behaviors

### Opening

Overlays appear on the page after a direct user interaction, such as on click, tap, press, etc. Don't show overlays on page load. For that, prefer in-page messages and flash banners.

### Dismissing

Users should be able to dismiss an overlay by:

> - Pressing Escape

Reviewer: Somewhere above Escape is formatted as a key - should be consistent

Overlays that have one or more input fields should always use the full-screen variant.

<ImageContainer>
  <img
    width="500"
    src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18661030/172957286-630f1737-8a90-48eb-9732-7168d882ec81.png"
    alt=""
    style="background: none"
  />
</ImageContainer>
<Caption>Full-screen overlay with close button.</Caption>

<!--
## Navigation
This section should cover in-overlay navigation such as drill-in scenarios, back button, etc.
-->

## Components

Several components that rely on overlays are available for use. Use them directly when aiming for a specific behavior:

<Grid gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, '1fr 2fr']} gridGap={4}>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/ActionMenu2">
            <img alt="Action menu" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123880964-95b3a700-d8f8-11eb-9775-cbaf165207ed.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Action menu</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

Action menus are used for showing actions, navigation, or to display secondary options. They appear when users interact with a trigger button.

> [Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/ActionMenu2)

Reviewer: Link not working.

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/DropdownMenu)

</Box>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/SelectPanel">
            <img alt="Select panel" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/123876997-4158f900-d8f1-11eb-85cb-461d9bbee0cb.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Select panel</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

Select panels allow the manipulation of long lists of options, with filtering and other advanced interactions. They can be used for single or multi-selection.

[Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/SelectPanel)

</Box>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/Dialog2#confirmationdialog">
            <img alt="Confirmation dialog" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146620807-b5a757bc-59a0-4596-ad3a-ef656c7d5620.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Confirmation dialog</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

Confirmation dialogs let users confirm or cancel an action. They are used as extra friction for destructive actions.

> [Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/Dialog2#confirmationdialog)

Reviewer: Link not working.

</Box>
    </div>
<div>
        <Link href="https://primer.style/react/Dialog2">
            <img alt="Dialog" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/293280/146621670-20a7e5dd-1f62-4780-a7ed-10711db93fcb.png" />
        </Link>
    </div>
    <div>
        <Heading fontSize={3}>Dialog</Heading>
        <Box as="p">

Dialogs are larger overlays used to display details, forms, and other rich content.

> [Primer React implementation](https://primer.style/react/Dialog2)

Reviewer: Link not working.
